Matthew Danielson
Final Project Notes and Info/Project Proposal

------------------
Project Proposal | 
------------------



		Overview:
		
	My project will be a simulation that allows for users to customize their apocalypse scenario,
and survive in it, designed around the user making strategic decisions to manage resources and a
group, while dealing with scenarios that result from both their choices and random elements. This
apocalypse is of a more fallout-esque nature rather than any other(i.e. surviving after a nuclear
fallout).

	In terms of customization, a user will be able to set the following when commencing a game:
		- Population of affected area
			Main industry of the region
				Alters effectivity and odds of success of certain actions

		- Size of group
			Talents and abilities of individual group members*
			Name individual group members
			
		- Additonally, they can change how far into the apocalypse the game begins
			This affects...
				Availability of supply items/Successfullness of scavenging
				Availability of power
				General dangerousness of the area
	* Look at game mechanics in order to understand how this affects gameplay
	
	Within the game itself, the player will be working on a day by day basis; each day, they 
will be presented with what they have. For instance, for food, they will be shown how many days
they can feed their population with their current food. Below is an example of this graphic.

Remaining Supplies
------------------

Food:  x days 
Fuel: z units
Weapons: a units
Electronics: y units   
Construction Supplies: b units

	Note that there are no specific items - considering the time span given to work on this project,
that would be too time consuming. However, to take weapons for instance, if there are enough weapons
for everyone in the group, then in any potiential combat scenarios, they will have a higher chance
to win the diceroll that determines the winner. Fuel determines whether the group can use a vehicle,
which decreases the odds of being attacked and increases general safety. Construction allows for 
improving the safety of the group's base, decreasing odds of being attacked, and making it easier
to defend.

	On a daily basis, the player can choose to do 2 of the following actions:
		
		- Fortify the base(construction): Decreases the odds of being attacked and gives the group an advantage in
		future assaults.  	
		
		- Scavenge: The player will have the choice of what they want to look for,
		within the five supply groups. This is risker than most of the other actions.
[]		
		- "Farming": This is general category in which food production and preparation falls. While 
		this is not really farming, it is attempting to focus on getting more food and is not as risky as scavenging.
		
		- Tinker: This allows for growth of the group members. This, depending on the successfullness, can give your group members 
		permanent upgrades. Additionally, it can allow for weapon fabrication or car repairs. This element is entirely random - otherwise
		it would be too strong - except when the car is broken. Then, all tinkering actions are dedicating to attempting to repair it.
		
		- Assault: This is BY FAR the riskiest action in the game. Group members will almost certainly die. That being said,
		it is definitely the strongest way to get a lot of resources.
		
		
		Game Mechanics & Daily Events:
	
	An important element of this game/simulation will be random, daily events. One such mechanic will
be the base assault, which can be safeguarded against by improving the group's base. Other daily events
include dice rolls on being assaulted while scavenging, varying success rates for actions - especially
when said action is done many times in succession. As time progresses, each turn the user takes being counted
as one day, loot becomes scarcer and attacks become more frequent. Even if players play exceedingly well, unlucky dice rolls
and daily events can ruin even a seemingly stable situation. Members of the player's party will die, and new party members are 
probably among the rarest encounters. There are no win conditions for this game, as the point is to see how long you can survive. To quote
Project Zomboid's developers, "These are the end times. This is how you died."
	
	In terms of game mechanics, there are 4 skills: Scavenging, Combat, Construction and Tinkering.
At party creation, each character is allowed to have a speciality in any one of these 4. This will give a bonus to that character.
These stats are used, in the case of combat, to roll against enemies, whose strength increases as the game progresses. If every member has a weapon,
then the bonus from weapons is maximized; if not enough weapons are present, advantage is given on a percentage-based system. For all other skills,
a success multipler is given. These are calculated by adding together all the current group member's deviation from the norm. There are very rare events
that can give permanent stat upgrades, but do not rely on these.
		
	The game is lost if every party member dies. If there is not enough food, every action that the group takes has a -5%(subject to change) to every action per day
that they have not eaten. If that modifier drops below 50%, the group will starve.	
	
	
	
	
	
	