Rumeet Goradia
Many school districts utilize an online software that helps teachers and school administrators keep track of their students' grades. These programs, like Genesis, also allow easy maneuverability through class rosters and attendance records. 
My custom program will attempt to mimic these online educational services. The user will be an elementary school teacher for a small school with one teacher per grade (kindergarten to fifth grade); the user will get to "log-in" as the teacher he/she wishes to be, and all relevant data (like the teacher's name, the grade, the class roster, etc.) would be called using a switch statement. The user would be asked to login with a string password, which will be the password until the user ends the program or logs out. The user would have to enter this same password every time he/she makes a change to the grades. The students' data would be organized using structure data types. The user will have the option to input commands. Since there are multiple students, this structure data type would be used in conjunction with an array. For instance, he/she can enter "show roster" to see the data for all the students, and a separate function will print the roster. Moreover, the user can select to view the details of a specific student, including name, age, address, and grades in each class, which will be printed with the help of a function.  The user can also enter "help" to see all the commands he/she can enter, and a custom function will print out a list of commands. Of course, there will have to be code to make sure the input is a valid command. The other major input mechanic will be putting in grades. The user can first select a subject, and using a combination of an ENUM list and a switch statement, he/she will input grades (and also input whether the assignment was a test, quiz, classwork, or homework, which will affect the weight of the assignment), and the subject's average for each student will be calculated using a separate function. There would be many uses for loops in the program, usually for the repetition of each function. The whole program would probably run on a while loop, and it would run until the user entered a specific string, like "log out".
